>> Hi everyone.
Welcome. My name is Patrick; I'm an
iPhone Engineer on the Core Location team.
Today I'll be talking to you about
Finding Your Place with Core Location.
So why location?
Well, location is really compelling
because it's not just about navigation.
It allows us to find and visualize
information in a geographical sense.
Now, as I was preparing this talk I was going to put some
samples together of how you can use location services,
but we've offered location services on the iPhone for
the past year, and really I thought it would be cool just
to actually grab some of the examples on my own phone
and show you some of the great things you've done.
Because really you've pushed the
potential of our technology.
Yelp . Yelp uses location to allow you
to find nearby venues and restaurants
so you don't have to walk around hungry anymore.
Brightkite.
Brightkite uses location to geotag a specific spot.
Now a geotag is a message of a picture that
you could leave virtually at a location,
and someone else with that App could
come to the location and see that message
like oh Patrick was here yesterday and had Cappuccino.
I think I'll try that out.
Indie Bound uses location to help
you find that nearby bookstore
so you can pick up the title you've been looking for.
Geocaching.
Geocaching uses location to help you go on a little
treasure hunt with friends and find that geocach
or that hidden item in your neighborhood.
You could also set up geocaches for
others to find; so that's pretty cool.
And of course during the campaign you could use
the Obama app to find nearby political events.
Lastly, Tweetie.
Tweetie uses location to allow you to update
your Twitter page and look at nearby Tweets.
So these are all fantastic examples
and there are thousands of other apps
on the App Store that really use location in unique ways.
Actually I was at the Smule talk during lunch yesterday and
they were showing some really fantastic pieces of location.
For instance the Ocarina app shows using
location in various places around the world.
So the underlying technology that actually
makes this all possible is Core Location.
Now that's a Framework for both iPhone and iPod Touch.
But this talk is also addressing one
more platform and that's Snow Leopard.
So it's really exciting now that we
have location technology on the Mac.
So I'll be talking about this API
for both of these platforms today,
and if there's something that's very specific to a
particular platform; for instance iPhone versus the Mac,
then I'll point that out to you just so you are aware.
And if you are planning on writing on that
cross-platform location app, do review the documentations;
the API is similar but there are some minor
differences like one method name is different.
So please, if you're going to write that
cross-platform app just make sure you check
out the information that's available.
So how does Core Location work?
Well Core Location is really unique because it
abstracts all the location technologies on the device.
This is both Mac, iPod Touch and the iPhone.
And what makes this really unique is that since it
abstracts this technology you could use the same API
on these different platforms and
still achieve what you're looking for.
So for this example, I'll be talking about iPhone
because it has the most location technologies available.
The first being cell positioning; iPhone can use the
cell towers around it to determine where it's located;
iPhone can also perform a Wi-Fi scan to
look at the neighboring Wi-Fi networks
and use that information to determine where it's located.
And of course iPhone has GPS.
So it uses all these technologies together.
Now, this is actually information
that you're possibly already familiar
with because this is what we were talking about last year.
So what's new?
Well, we thought about what we already had available
on the device, and that's the accelerometer.
Now what's unique about accelerometer is that it actually
can give us some information about changes in force.
So what we can determine from that is looking
at accelerometer we can tell if we're very still
or we can tell if we've started to move again.
So what's unique about this is we can tell
if we stopped moving or started moving.
So, you might be familiar with a
pedometer app in the App store.
Pedometers allow you to track how many paces you've walked,
and can tell you how many feet you walked just by observing
and monitoring accelerometer information.
So we kind of do the same thing but we do it
to aide the GPS and the location technology.
So what that means we can better track you
and try to prevent cases of overshooting.
So this is something that all devices will get for
free with iPhone 3.0 so we have better tracking.
And of course we have a new sensor
and that sensor is Compass.
So Compass is a new service in Core Location and it provides
some advanced features that actually use location technology
which I'll talk more about later, and
Compass actually does the same thing
as the accelerometer and assists in tracking for turns.
So all of these technologies together really make Core
Location unique; because of this unified framework
that combines all of these various things
together in unique ways to complete one another.
So, Core Location provides us unified front
and that's what I'll be talking about today.
So, let's talk about the location
portion first in more detail.
So finding your location in your app.
So your location is your geographic position
which includes latitude, longitude and altitude.
Now we accompany that information with an accuracy
value and this accuracy value is very important.
The reason for that is because these different types of
location technology have different types of precision;
so with these different types of precision, for example,
a cell position might be a little
bit rougher than a GPS position.
So this accuracy is something that
you should really pay attention to;
and when you're designing your location
app it's something you should keep in mind
for the use case of what's appropriate for your app.
So I'll be talking about all the various types of
location technology from least precise to most precise.
When I go through these, think about what accuracy
or type of location is valuable to your app
because there are tradeoffs for having a more
precise location than a less precise location.
So if you're writing a weather app for example, you might
not need to know the exact street that the device is on.
For example, you could just know that oh I'm in this
neighborhood so that's the weather in that region.
So let's start talking about Cell.
Cell gives you a position between 1 - 3 km;
it's extremely fast to get this type of position
because an iPhone is already talking to the cell
towers and already has that information available.
So it's extremely fast which means that it can
actually calculate this position pretty quickly.
So it takes less power.
Now, we have actually on 3.0 added a second tier
of cell positioning but the API is still the same;
and that means if you're in a less dense
cellular area and you can't get a 1 - 3 km fix,
we could at least give you a 12 km position.
So, we've done this by design and you're probably
thinking well why would I need something that rough?
Well, it can allow you to start pre-fetching
information for a geographic location.
And by pre-fetching information that's particular to
your geographic location, as you continue to improve
that measurement and wait for that better location
information to arrive, then you have something
that you could display to the user
and not take the user's time so much.
That's pretty cool.
And we have Wi-Fi positioning.
Wi-Fi positioning is within 100 m.
What's very unique about Wi-Fi is this the only
location technology that's on Snow Leopard.
So what the device does in this type of
scenario is that it will scan all around looking
at the neighboring Wi-Fi networks, and
it will look at those Mac addresses;
it takes the Mac address information
and it will send it to a server.
And that server will do some calculations and send back
to your device some particular
information on where the device is located.
So, this is a slightly longer process than
Cell, so it means it takes more power.
And so this is something you have
to think about to yourself--
OK do a need a 100 m accuracy versus the cell positioning
which is 1 - 3 km so it's just something to keep in mind.
Another good point about Cell and Wi-Fi is that
both of these technologies work really well indoors.
So, you can definitely get a fix with one
of these types of location technology.
Also these technologies will send you a
location update when it's been calculated.
On the contrary until the next technology which
I'm going to talk about which is of course the GPS.
So the GPS will give you a position under 40 m and
that position is given to you in heartbeat update--
meaning it comes at a very frequent rate.
So, because of this and the GPS uses different types
of hardware, it actually is more power intensive.
But it does accompany the location information with a little
bit of more data which is the speed you're traveling at
and the course which is the direction you're traveling.
So, all this is pretty useful; and again if
you're thinking about the use case for your app,
you have to think about what type
of accuracy do you want to achieve?
As Core Location will use these
technologies in the background to come
up with the solution that you're looking for.
So, as I was saying, it takes a while to calculate
depending on what type of accuracy you're looking for.
And this is the user's time we're thinking about
because they'll be looking at their app as it's trying
to determine and measure your calculation.
So, if you have a more precise location what actually
happens is that you're given a rough location,
and then as the device is calculating your next location,
it's trying to refine that measurement in that position.
So it's giving you location information and closing
in on that accuracy that you're looking for.
So, if you're taking more time that also means that
it's consuming more power so you do need to be aware
that when you're using a location
technology, you're definitely using more power
on the device so it's just something to think about.
Let's talk about how this actually
works in your application.
As you can see here, we have two primary components--
you have a controller in your application that
will receive notifications from the framework
and then of course you have the Core Location Framework.
Now if we zoom into these two components we have these
classes in this breakdown which I can talk to you about.
So, the controller in your app will implement this protocol.
It's the LocationManagerDelegate protocol and that means it
can implement some methods to receive these notifications.
In the Core Location Framework
itself it has the LocationManager.
Now the Manager is really important because that's where you
can configure the type of locations you'd like to receive,
and it lets you turn on this location engine which will
start providing you with location updates and using power;
and also when you stop it, it will stop it from
sending you location updates and stop using power.
So, that location information and directional
information is actually provided by these two gray boxes--
the location object and the heading object
which I'll talk about a little bit later.
So these are kind of like the overall
views of the two primary components.
So before we actually start requesting location
information, we have to specify that desire to accuracy.
Now remember we talked about the tradeoffs, about
the more precise accuracy, the more time it will take
and the more power it may consume, so
this is where you actually specify that.
So you tell the desired accuracy how
precise of a location you desire.
And once that's configured, we
can call startUpdatingLocation.
So immediately this will start consuming
power because the Location Manager is hard
at work trying to calculate that measurement.
Once that it starts calculating those
measurements it will send those location objects
to your app and through the delegate callback.
And that will continue until you have
received the Location Manager object
that really fits the needs of or
the use case of your application.
So once this has happened, you
simply call stopUpdatingLocation
and stopUpdatingLocation will take the Location
Manager to stop working on the measurements
and you can start conserving power
again so this is very important.
So you may be thinking to yourself OK I can start and
stop this engine to receive all this location information.
Well, that does control the frequency or rate
that you receive the location information,
but there's also another type of configuration that I'd
like to tell you about and that's the distance filter.
So the distance filter does save you
a little bit of power in terms of IPC.
What this does is it actually tells the
device OK don't send me a location update
until I've actually moved a particular distance.
So once a device is moved that particular
distance, then it will send you the location update.
So this is another way you can control how
frequent notifications are coming to your app.
That's pretty unique.
So we've talked about how to use location technology
now; let's talk more about how to make the most of it.
So there are some pretty unique points that I'd like to
share with you in order to make the most of this framework.
So for efficiency, Core Location may cache
location objects; but depending on the use case
of your app, it really depends on your intentions.
You should actually check the timestamp for these location
objects before using them; because you don't want a user
to see an older location than what's
necessary for your use case.
So my first recommendation to make the most
of the Core Location is to really check
that timestamp and make sure it fits your use case.
Another viewpoint to take is location privacy.
So some users don't want to use location services or may
not want a particular application to use location services.
And for that there are two dialogues and this is
both for Snow Leopard and for the iPhone as well.
So this is presented to the user until
they accept or they can push "Don't Allow".
What "Don't Allow" means is that they do
not desire to use the location services.
I do recommend to you that if they
do push "Don't Allow" to provide them
with some type of use case for your application.
For example, maybe it means to enter in a zip code.
So, this dialogue gets displayed as
soon as you call startUpdatingLocation.
And you won't receive location
measurements until the user pushes OK.
You should keep in mind that there is a global
setting for both Snow Leopard and the iPhone as well.
And that global setting is a setting that allows a user to
decide if they should use location technology in general.
But what I'd like to point out to you that if the user
doesn't use location technology, we should really understand
that and instead of calling startUpdatingLocation,
we should check to see if they have that switch off;
because we don't want to bother the
user with dialogue boxes and messages.
So I recommend checking out the Location Manager's
property and that's locationServicesEnabled,
so check that property before calling startUpdatingLocation
just to save the user who may not desire
to user location services; and they'll get a
more pleasant experience out of your application.
So, it's important to think about error handling
too; and error handling is you'll receive NS errors
through the same delegate callback system that
I had described earlier for location objects.
So you'll implement a delegate callback and that with
that delegate callback you can receive these errors.
And there are only two types of errors you should
worry about: The first one is error denied and that's
when the user pushes that "Don't Allow" button.
So you'll receive that delegate callback
with that particular information.
And we have location unknown.
Location unknown is an OK error.
It basically means that location services
are hard at work in the background
and that you'll receive a location pretty
soon so just hang in there it's working on it.
So these are two types of errors that can occur.
I'd like to talk to you a little bit about power saving.
As I said before starting and stopping
the Location Manager--
actually when you call start, you start consuming
power; when you call stop you stop using power.
And if you take anything away from making
the most of the core location of these points
that I'm telling you, I find this one to be very important.
So if the user is using their device in an area that's
very hard to detect, they measure their location,
then that desired accuracy you requested could not be
reached or may not be reached for a great period of time.
So, the core location is hard at work, it's
closing in on that desired location giving you more
and more location information, the desired accuracy
is closing and closing in and it's not quite reaching
that desired accuracy you specified originally.
So what this means is we recommend setting a timer
just as soon as you call startUpdatingLocation.
So when you set that timer, it will start ticking down
and if that timer expires before you
received the desired location of your choice,
then just simply call stopUpdatingLocation and
use the information you've already we received.
So we recommend doing that to conserve power.
Another point with regard to conserving
power is you receive the LocationUnknown.
So for example, if the user disconnects their external GPS
or if they're using their Mac and they move out of range
of a Wi-Fi network, you should call stopUpdatingLocation
when you receive that LocationUnknown and start a timer.
And what this means is basically you like to wait out this
period of difficult environment to calculate a location.
So as soon as that timer has expired,
you can call startUpdatingLocation again
and start hopefully receiving measurements for that
new environment that the user may have moved into.
So this is just a tip or a pointer that you
can use to deal with some of these environments
that might be difficult to calculate a location in.
So, that's the first part of my talk
where I focused on location technology.
So we talked about the desired accuracy that you need
to specify and how important that is because it depends
on the latency-- how long it takes to get
that location, and how much power it takes
to get the precise location that you're looking for.
We talked about some of the basics-- the API, and we
also talked about how to make the most of the framework
to really benefit your app; such as looking at those
timestamps, understanding the user's privacy and trying
to avoid prompting them with a dialogue if they've got
location services turned off and things of that nature.
So let's talk about Direction.
So what is important about Direction?
Well, Direction is definitely a
means to assist in navigation.
And aside from navigation, it's also very interesting
to view information in a directional sense.
So I'll talk more about both of
those points today and I'll also talk
about a couple different ways you can
get directional information from iPhone.
And the first, many of you have
probably already used, that's course.
So course is actually the direction you're traveling in.
So if I'm walking across the stage
this is the direction I'm traveling in.
This is provided to you in the CLLocation object
and that's calculated based on your path of travel.
So you have to be moving for this to happen.
Now some of you might have written apps that uses
technology already, and you may notice that for example
if you have a Compass app in the car
and it's using course and you turn it,
it's still giving you the direction
that the car is moving in.
Well that's why we have Heading.
And Headings was provided by the new
magnetometer or the Compass in iPhone 3GS.
So this is available even when you're stationary so
you don't have to be moving for this to be calculated.
And it's a direction just like course -- 0 to 359o.
And what's unique is a heading
is the direction you're facing.
So if I'm traveling backwards, my course is this way;
but I'm facing this direction which is my heading.
So these two points can be different; so
that's just something to keep in mind.
So let's talk more about Heading since it's new.
In iPhone 3GS we have a new sensor and that's the
magnetometer and that provides a heading information.
So what that means is that it gives
you a direction to Magnetic North;
and what's really cool about this
is the device actually can give you
that direction no matter what orientation
you're holding the device in.
And we also provide these X, Y, Z
values that represent the vector
or the magnetic line that's pointing toward magnetic north.
So that's available through the API and
actually I'll show you a little demo about this.
So, how does this work exactly?
Well, the magnetometer aligns itself
with the earth's magnetic field.
And the earth magnetic field is this
physical phenomenon surrounding the earth
and it's slightly different than what we're used to.
What we're used is the North Pole;
and that North Pole is True North.
Cartographers when they drawn maps usually reference
their map based on the North Pole or True North.
So we have this difference here.
We have all compasses that show this magnetic direction
and then we have True North which is what maps you.
So if we're comparing our heading on a map, it may be
different because depending on where you're located,
the earth's magnetic field is very different.
So for example, I'm on a road and
I'm using a magnetic compass,
depending on where I am it may not be pointing directly
down the road if that road is aligned with True North.
Wouldn't it be excellent if we had a
compass that could actually display both?
You can clap.
So that's what's really unique about iPhone.
The iPhone GPS can actually display
both True north and Magnetic North.
So what does this mean exactly?
So magnetic compasses show this direction so for example if
you're in San Francisco, a magnetic compass will point 14o
in one direction, different from True North;
and the same compass in New York City
will point 14o in the other direction.
But what's really cool about Core Location and
since it already has its location technology,
we can determine where you're located, we can do
some calculations to determine what the field is
like at your location, and then we can
automatically correct this and show you True North.
So what does this mean?
It means if you're using a map
your compass will actually point
in the correct direction as opposed to a magnetic direction.
So if you're in Paris it might point slightly off in
one direction, and as I said here in San Francisco,
it points 14o slightly in another
direction and also in New York City.
So it's really great as you can see these blue arrows here,
that's why I'm trying to represent the true North Direction
and this red arrow is the magnetic North
Direction that most traditional Compasses show.
So let's talk about how we can actually
use the magnetometer in the iPhone.
So just as you would configure the
Location Manager for location technology,
we use the Location Manager also for
the heading and the magnetometer.
So to check and see if a device
has a magnetometer available in it,
we have this property on the Location
Manager called Heading Available.
So simply check this property to determine
if the device has a Compass available.
And similar to the location technology we
have another property which is Heading Filter.
Now what this means is you're telling Core
Location only give me heading information
if the device is turned a certain
particular amount of degrees,
so you could say only give me updates
if they move the device every 45o.
So how do you actually get heading information?
Well they can have this diagram;
this may look very familiar to you.
And we've actually done this by design, so the
heading API is very similar to the location API.
When you call startUpdatingHeading, you'll start
receiving heading information in these CLHeading objects;
and when you call this the device will start
using hotware because it's using the magnetometer.
When you call stopUpdating Heading you'll stop receiving
heading updates and you'll start conserving power.
So this True Heading I was talking about earlier
or the direction to the North Pole at True North,
the direction that maps use, I had
mentioned that this uses location.
So the device has to have determined a
location within a particular period of time.
Otherwise this value is reported as -1.0
until a location has been determined.
And a rough location is OK so you can use that
CLThreekilometersAccuracy, desired accuracy.
So you tell the Location Manager I'd
like a ThreekilometerAccuracyLocation
and using that location information, Core
Location will automatically fill this field
in with a true heading information
based on where the device is located.
So the default apps on iPhone that use heading
information, they all display True Heading
and when True Heading's not available,
they'll fall back to the Magnetic Heading.
So it's just something to keep in mind.
So let me start off by showing you a
quick Demo; and this Demo is really
to demonstrate how you can use the raw data
and start using the Compass information.
Can we switch over the demo machine?
I have a sample project here and it's actually
available on the Attendee website so if you want
to follow along you can just look up the Core Location
Session, and under there this code is available.
Now this project is called testometer and it's a
quick project I've put together and it allows us
to use the magnetometer to observe magnetic fields.
The reason why I did this is it gives a good example
as to how you can use this Compass
raw date of that X, Y, Z I described.
So here we have this testometer project and you can
see the two primary components I talked about earlier--
the Gold Box which is Core Location,
and then we have a controller
in our app which is the testometer view controller.
So this is the primary view in the application that
will allow us to receive this heading information.
So if we take a glance at the header, we can see
where-- including the Core Location framework
and we're implementing the Location
Manager Delegate protocol.
Now we have a few labels that we'll
be using and even a graph.
Now if we jump into the implementation with us, there
are a few things that are kind of cool to look at.
So we have a viewDidLoad so this is called once that primary
view is loaded, and this is where we initialize and create
that Location Manager that I talked about--
that whole engine that controls the
location and the heading information.
So we allocate that here, and then we check
to see if the device has a heading available.
So in this particular case, you'd have to think about
how you can still provide something useful to the user,
maybe not show heading information or
you could even fall back to course.
Of course that's appropriate for your app
so that's a property you should check.
And here's that filter that I mentioned before.
We're just saying we want every heading
calculation that's been determined.
And now we're saying OK let's make this
controller class the delegate to Location Manager.
So this class is going to be receiving those notifications.
And here's where we call startUpdatingHeading.
What this means is that we want to start
receiving that heading information.
So as these heading events arrive, they
arrive through this pointer object here;
and because I wanted to make a magnetic field detector,
I'm using this variable that's called a magnitude.
Really that's allowing us to measure the size of
that magnetic vector that's coming off the phone.
So it will allow us to really determine the strength
of that magnetic field that the sensor is looking at.
So we have these X, Y, Z values and we perform the
computation, and we also copy over the heading information.
And then we call update and update will actually update
the UI so we're updating these four labels we have,
and then we're updating a little graph
so you can visually see these updates.
Just to show you, here's the properties that are in this
heading object; so as I said we have a Magnetic Heading
and then we have True Heading which is -1 until you
determine a location; we are provided timestamp and X, Y,
Z and I'll talk about accuracy in a moment.
So if we could switch over to the
Wolfvision so here we have an iPhone 3GS
and as you can see we have the default Compass app here
and here's the testometer project
we just looked up the code for.
So if I launch this app, so here we have it.
Pretty simple application; we have this text view up
here that determines the strength of the magnetic field
and then we have these raw magnetic values below
the X, Y, Z and I'm plotting these in real time
so you can see the history of the data as it changes.
So as you can see X is red, Y is green, so if I
turn the device on the X Y plane and turn it back,
you can actually see the X and Y cross over each other.
So what's also unique here, I have a house
magnet and as I hold it close to the device,
you can see the magnetic fields fluctuating
so it's detecting when I move that device in.
So as you can see this is picking up a lot
of magnetic activity around the display here.
So if we could switch back over the slides.
So that's our first demo.
It's a pretty simple starter app just to get you started.
So as you noticed as I was giving that demo, the device had
that fluctuating magnetic field which is pretty interesting.
So what that means there is magnetic fields around us
everywhere, and all compasses are affected by them.
So what that means if your Mac or even the iPhone
itself can produce some type of magnetic field;
and all of these fields can confuse a traditional needle
compass and it can even interfere with an iPhone Compass.
But the disadvantage to a needle compass or
other compass devices is that they can't detect
or know when they're being interfered
with but that's unique for them.
We do something a little different.
With that heading object we provide accuracy, so we've
actually determined a way to figure out how inaccurate
that compass reading could be based
on other interfering magnetic fields.
So it's pretty cool.
So that headingAccuracy value will actually act more
dynamically if you're using location information.
So I recommend trying it out and checking in to it.
So how does it behave?
Well if you have small types of magnetic changes in the
magnetic field, that headingAccuracy value will fluctuate.
So what that means is the heading information you're
receiving has that appropriate Heading Accuracy value,
the headingAccuracy value may change
from 40o and it may improve up to 10o.
What this means is that heading value that is being
given to you, is plus or minus this headingAccuracy.
So what's cool is you can actually use this in
your UI in unique ways; so the Maps application--
I've kind of darkened the background
just so you can see this more vividly.
But as you can see the flashlight or this
white cone that indicates the heading
or the direction you are pointing the device.
So as you move it the map will rotate
but that's the direction it's facing.
So if there is a lot of interference
this cone is a little bit wider.
But, as the accuracy improves of if you move
away from interference, then that cone shrinks.
And it's kind of a unique way just
to communicate to the user
that it's not exactly precise,
but there's some interference.
And of course the finer the width
of the cone, the more precise.
So there's a lot of really unique
ways you can take advantage of this.
For instance, if you're making a Compass
application, you can have that needle kind of quiver
like a traditional compass if you're waving a magnet
near it so there are some cool things about it.
Well what happens if you have large
swarms of magnetic interference?
So that headingAccuracy value will be reported as -1.
And that just means I wouldn't
trust the heading information--
that magnetic heading value that's
being delivered in that heading object.
So if that's unreliable or actually if you introduce more
magnetic exposure, like very strong magnetic exposure
to the device, then it will stop propagating those
magnetic heading values, the CL heading value
and it will start propagating this heading failure.
So that's just saying that something is preventing
the device from calculating any type of heading;
that there's just too much magnetic exposure.
And I've only seen this if I held like a
very high powered magnet over the device.
So as soon as that source moves away, it
will stop sending these error messages
and it will start sending the traditional
heading information back to you again.
So if there are these different
interfering fields with the compass,
it is important to know that you can improve this accuracy.
And there's a couple of ways you can improve it.
So as I said before you can move away
from that source of heavy interference;
or we actually use movement to
differentiate two magnetic fields.
So what does that mean exactly?
Well the earth magnetic field is everywhere around us.
But it's hard to differentiate that from a
magnetic that you're holding close to the device.
So we recommend that you actually
move the device in a 3D motion,
and that movement will sample the magnetic information
all around the device, and it can differentiate
and detect the interfering field as part
of that device or the earth magnetic field.
So by movement it can actually improve
itself and improve its reading.
So that's pretty cool.
So you can move away from a magnetic source and by
moving away you can improve your accuracy again;
and if you're in a clean magnetic environment just by moving
the device, helps it tune in to that earth magnetic field
and cancel out any interference that's
coming from the device itself possibly.
So that's how you improve your compass accuracy.
Now as I said you're moving the device so it's good to
notify the user that they may need to move their device
to improve accuracy; or move away from this interference.
So we have an optional message that you could use, and
you'll receive a delegate callback for this message.
And what that means is just tell your user OK move
your device or move away from that magnetic source.
This automatically gets dismissed once
the device filters out that interference.
Or you can manually dismiss it; for example,
if the user goes into your settings view away
from the main compass view, they you may
want to call this dismissed value just
so this display isn't over whatever you're looking at.
So that's everything about direction.
We talked about course, we talked about heading,
so course is the direction you travel in;
talked about heading which is provided by the
compass and that's the direction you're facing;
we talked about magnetic north and true north.
Magnetic North is the direction of the earth's
magnetic field which compasses align with,
and then we have True North where the North
Pole, the direction we're most familiar with;
the direction of the North Star that
cartographers use when they create maps.
And we talked about using this API and how we could
create a simple magnetic field detector and how important
that heading accuracy is to determine if there's
interference; and to just visually show to the user
that there might be some type of interfering field.
So that's the second part of my talk, and now
I'd like to talk to you about Beyond Navigation.
So Beyond Navigation is actually quite exciting
and there are a few topics I'd like to discuss.
There are some additional use cases for
Compass other than just determining direction.
And I' like to talk about some of the
other platforms you should be aware about.
And then depending on the use case of your app,
you have some options on frameworks you could use.
So what's really cool about Compass is that you
can actually use it to view a virtual landscape.
So we may not be at Apple's Campus right now looking at
the courtyard, but by holding up our device and panning
that device left and right, we could actually visually
give an experience like we're at that location.
So it's pretty exciting.
So the same can be applied to a game so you can actually use
Compass to determine if your player in that game should turn
down the hallway or turn left or
turn right and that's pretty cool.
But you might be thinking to yourself,
"Patrick, you cannot already do this
with accelerometer if you're holding the device."
Well accelerometer is a little different.
Accelerometer is when you're tilting that does the action
but Compass itself you're physically
moving in a particular direction.
It's a little bit of a difference in user experience.
Augmented Reality.
Augmented Reality is another really cool concept.
So we have these really special devices
that can tell us where we're located,
and now can tell us which direction we're facing.
So imagine all of us here right now, we're
standing in front of the Apple Store in New York.
Well let's find out some more information
about this Apple Store.
We hold up our device and through the
camera it's displaying the Apple Store
but it can overlay some additional information.
So oh we're looking at the Apple Store,
here's the address, this is just an example.
It gives you that concept that
information can be overlaid in real time,
and you can see additional information
that you traditionally wouldn't see.
So that's pretty cool.
Another kind of neat use case to kind
of think about is Reconstructing Media.
So the camera on iPhone will accompany and imbed
heading information in the [inaudible] data
and you can even use heading as you're taking pictures.
You can store heading information yourself.
And what's really cool about this is if we
take pictures in several different directions,
we can actually use that heading information
to automatically merge an image together.
So this is just one use case example.
There are many different types of use cases about
restructuring media, but this is just to kind
of give you a little brainstorm
about the possibilities of Compass.
Because otherwise if you're doing this it's very difficult;
you have to provide a UI to have the user align these images
as they're taking the pictures; so we're trying
to think of a less painful way for the user
to experience something unique from Compass.
So, something you should keep in mind is that Compass
measures the direction off the top of the device.
So, if you're writing a game app and it uses Compass and
landscape, you should be aware that you need to shift that.
Because the intention of your UI may be different
than what the device hardware is calculating.
So just provide an offset to shift it over
and if you're using the device and landscape
in the other direction, you can shift it over as well.
There's just some things to keep in mind; and do be aware
that if you are applying this shift to the heading value
so it's working in landscape, you will be wrapping around
when you hit that 359o or you're coming back to 0o.
So let me show you a quick demo.
So I put another quick application together just to kind
of give you an idea of some of the potential of Compass.
I call this Spectacle-- so basically what this allows is
if we're on a virtual plane, I can actually turn the device
and we're actually looking at Mars in different directions.
So I know what some of you maybe thinking.
This is out of this world.
But it's just one of the potential use cases you could do.
So here what we're doing is we're
animating an offset for an image view.
So that's one really interesting potential use case.
Could we switch back over to the slides please?
Oh another point that I should mention to you is that
you can actually even overlay core animation layers,
and depending on the direction the device is being moved
in, you can rotate or move those core animation layers
and create an application like a kaleidoscope for example.
So there are a lot of really cool things
you can do with directional information.
So some other points I'd like to make and when
using the Core Location Framework do be aware
that there's multiple platforms that you're supporting;
and if you're writing that navigation app that was
for iPhone previously, be aware that it's now
possible for iPod Touches to have an external GPS.
So don't just limit your app.
You have more potential customers now.
It's also good to know that you should be aware
if you're writing a location app for the Mac,
that Mac may not have a Wi-Fi card for example
So just some things to keep in mind.
Also, depending on your use case, some of you may
have attended the MapKit session this morning.
Now MapKit's a really cool framework and
that actually sits on top of Core Location;
and you can receive location information from MapKit.
So MapKit provides you with map views so
you can display maps in your application,
and it provides some other cool things like reverse
Geocoding so you can take a latitude, longitude,
convert that to an address or a neighborhood
name; and as I said it uses Core Location,
so you can retrieve location information from MapKit.
So when you're building and designing your app
you should be thinking about what's appropriate
or what's the appropriate use case for your application.
So because there's definitely a tradeoff here,
you can choose from a couple different frameworks.
So if you're using location, if you don't
have a mapview, it's probably most efficient
to just call a Core Location directly instead
of calling it through the MapKit framework.
Compass is provided by Core Location so you'll have to
talk to Core Location directly for the Compass information.
And of course, turn by turn you have to use
Core Location, and if you're using mapviews
and reverse Geocoding then you can use MapKit.
So just some use cases to think about.
And that wraps up everything I
wanted to chat with you about today.
So we talked about finding your location, how
appropriate it is to set that desired accuracy,
and how Core Location is the unified framework for
providing you with different types of location information;
and we talked about direction-- so the
difference between course and heading;
we talked about how iPhone can show Magnetic
North and True North using location information.
Then we kind of went beyond navigation and talked
about some fun use cases that you can implement
with heading information; and supporting multiple platforms,
and thinking about what framework
might be most appropriate for your app.
There's more information.
Please contact our Evangelist, Matt Drance, and
you can check out the API references online.